'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, 2014, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
.\"
.\" This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This code is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" version 2 for more details (a copy is included in the LICENSE file that
.\" accompanied this code).
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License version
.\" 2 along with this work; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\"
.\" Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
.\" or visit www.oracle.com if you need additional information or have any
.\" questions.
.\"
.\" Title: rmiregistry
.\" Language: Japanese
.\" Date: 2013年11月21日
.\" SectDesc: Remote Method Invocation (RMI)ツール
.\" Software: JDK 8
.\" Arch: 汎用
.\" Part Number: E58103-01
.\" Doc ID: JSSON
.\"
.if n .pl 99999
.TH "rmiregistry" "1" "2013年11月21日" "JDK 8" "Remote Method Invocation (RMI)"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.\" http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/groff/2009-02/msg00013.html
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "名前"
rmiregistry \- 現在のホストの指定したポート上にリモート・オブジェクト・レジストリを開始します。
.SH "概要"
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
\fBrmiregistry\fR [ \fIport\fR ]
.fi
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.PP
\fIport\fR
.RS 4
リモート・オブジェクト・レジストリを開始する現在のホスト上の\fBport\fRの数。
.RE
.SH "説明"
.PP
\fBrmiregistry\fRコマンドは、現在のホストの指定したポート上にリモート・オブジェクト・レジストリを作成し、開始します。portの指定を省略した場合、レジストリはポート1099で開始します。\fBrmiregistry\fRコマンドに、出力機能はありません。通常、これはバックグラウンドで実行されます。次に例を示します。
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
\fBrmiregistry &\fR
 
.fi
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.PP
リモート・オブジェクト・レジストリは、ブートストラップのネーム・サービスです。同一ホストのRMIサーバーが、リモート・オブジェクトを名前にバインドするために使用されます。次に、ローカルおよびリモート・ホストのクライアントはリモート・オブジェクトを検索し、リモート・メソッドの呼出しを行います。
.PP
レジストリは、一般的に、最初のリモート・オブジェクトの位置を指定します。そこで、アプリケーションはメソッドを呼び出す必要があります。その後、そのオブジェクトはアプリケーション指定のサポートを提供し、他のオブジェクトを探します。
.PP
\fBjava\&.rmi\&.registry\&.LocateRegistry\fRクラスのメソッドは、ローカル・ホスト、またはローカル・ホストとポートで動作するレジストリを取得するために使用されます。
.PP
\fBjava\&.rmi\&.Naming\fRクラスのURLベース・メソッドはレジストリに対して操作を実行し、任意のホストおよびローカル・ホストでのリモート・オブジェクトの検索に使用できます。単純名(文字列)をリモート・オブジェクトにバインドし、新しい名前をリモート・オブジェクトに再バインドし(古いバインドをオーバーライド)、リモート・オブジェクトをアンバインドし、レジストリにバインドされているURLをリスト表示します。
.SH "オプション"
.PP
\-J
.RS 4
Javaオプションとともに使用して、\fB\-J\fRの後ろに続くオプションをJavaインタプリタに引き渡します(\fB\-J\fRとオプションの間にスペースは入れません)。
.RE
.SH "関連項目"
.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
java(1)
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
\fB「java\&.rmi\&.registry\&.LocateRegistry」\fR(http://docs\&.oracle\&.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/rmi/registry/LocateRegistry\&.html)
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
\fB「java\&.rmi\&.Naming class description」\fR(http://docs\&.oracle\&.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/rmi/Naming\&.html)
.RE
.br
'pl 8.5i
'bp
