." Copyright (c) 1995, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by the Free Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
." version 2 for more details (a copy is included in the LICENSE file that
." accompanied this code).
."
." You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License version
." 2 along with this work; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additional information or have any
." questions.
."
.TH appletviewer 1 "07 May 2011"

.LP
.SH "名前"
appletviewer \- Java アプレットビューア
.LP
.LP
\f3appletviewer\fP コマンドは Web ブラウザの外でアプレットを実行させます。
.LP
.SH "形式"
.LP
.LP
\f4appletviewer\fP \f2[\fP \f2options\fP \f2] \fP\f2urls\fP ...
.LP
.SH "説明"
.LP
.LP
\f3appletviewer\fP コマンドは \f2urls\fP に指定されたドキュメントあるいはリソースと接続して、そのドキュメントが参照するそれぞれのアプレットを独自のウィンドウで表示します。注: \f2urls\fP によって参照されたドキュメントが、\f2OBJECT\fP、\f2EMBED\fP、または \f2APPLET\fP タグでどのアプレットも参照していない場合、\f3appletviewer\fP は何も行いません。\f3appletviewer\fP でサポートされる HTML タグの詳細については、
.na
\f2「アプレットビューアのタグ」\fP @
.fi
http://java.sun.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/tools/appletviewertags.htmlを参照してください。
.LP
.LP
\f3注:\fP \f3appletviewer\fP は、RFC2396 で規定されたエスケープ機構に従って符号化された URL を必要とします。サポートされるのは、符号化された URL だけです。ただし、ファイル名については、RFC2396 に指定された方法で符号化を解除しておく必要があります。
.LP
.SH "オプション"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-debug 
Java デバッガ jdb(1) でアプレットビューアを開始します。これにより、ドキュメント中のアプレットをデバッグすることができます。 
.TP 3
\-encoding \  \ encoding name 
入力 HTML ファイルのエンコーディング名を指定します。 
.TP 3
\-Jjavaoption 
文字列 \f2javaoption\fP は、appletviewer を実行する Java インタプリタに 1 つの引数として渡されます。引数にスペースを含めてはいけません。複数の引数は、各引数のすべてを接頭辞 \f3\-J\fP で始めることにより区分する必要があります。これは、コンパイラの実行環境、またはメモリーの利用に有効です。 
.RE

.LP
.LP

.LP
 
