'\" t
.\"
.\" Copyright 2002-2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
.\"
.\" This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This code is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" version 2 for more details (a copy is included in the LICENSE file that
.\" accompanied this code).
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License version
.\" 2 along with this work; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\"
.\" Please contact Sun Microsystems, Inc., 4150 Network Circle, Santa Clara,
.\" CA 95054 USA or visit www.sun.com if you need additional information or
.\" have any questions.
.\"
.\" 
.TH klist 1 "2004 年 6 月 22 日"
.SH "名前"
klist \- Kerberos クレデンシャルキャッシュとキータブ内のエントリを表示します。
.LP
.BR klist 
を使用すると、ユーザはローカルにあるクレデンシャルキャッシュと
キーテーブル内のエントリを表示できます。
.SH "形式"
.B klist
[
.IR commands " ]" 
.SH "機能説明"
.BR klist
はローカルにあるクレデンシャルキャッシュとキーテーブル内のエントリを表示します。
ユーザが
.BR kinit 
を使用してクレデンシャルキャッシュを変更したり、
.BR ktab
を使用してキータブを変更した後、変更を確認する唯一の方法は、
.BR klist
を使用してクレデンシャルキャッシュまたはキータブの内容を表示することです。
.BR klist
は Kerberos データベースを変更しません。

.SH "コマンド"
.B klist 
[
\-c [\-fe]]
[
\-k [\-tK]]
[
<name>]
[
\-help ]
.TP
.BI \-c
表示したいクレデンシャルキャッシュのエントリを指定します。
.TP
.BI \-k
表示したいキータブのエントリを指定します。
.TP
.BI <cache_name>
クレデンシャルキャッシュ名またはキータブ名を指定します。名前を指定しない場合、
クレデンシャルキャッシュ名またはキータブのデフォルト値が使用されます。
キャッシュとキータブのデフォルト値については、
.BR kinit
のマニュアルページを参照してください。
.LP
\-c オプションを指定した場合、クレデンシャルキャッシュ用のオプションは次のとおりです。
.TP
.BI \-f
クレデンシャルフラグを表示します。
.TP
.BI \-e
暗号化タイプを表示します。
.LP
\-k オプションを指定した場合、キータブ用のオプションは次のとおりです。
.TP
.BI \-t
キータブエントリのタイムスタンプを表示します。
.TP
.BI \-K
キータブエントリの DES キーを表示します。
.LP
.TP
.BI \-help
ヘルプを表示します。
.SH "使用例"
指定したキーテーブルのエントリと、そのタイムスタンプと DES キー
を表示します。
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
klist \-k \-t \-K FILE:/temp/mykrb5cc
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
指定したクレデンシャルキャッシュのエントリと、そのクレデンシャルフラグとアドレスリストを
表示します。
.LP
.ft 3
.nf
klist \-c \-f FILE:/temp/mykrb5cc
.fi
.ft 1
.LP
