'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, 2014, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
.\"
.\" This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This code is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" version 2 for more details (a copy is included in the LICENSE file that
.\" accompanied this code).
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License version
.\" 2 along with this work; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\"
.\" Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
.\" or visit www.oracle.com if you need additional information or have any
.\" questions.
.\"
.\" Title: policytool
.\" Language: Japanese
.\" Date: 2015年3月3日
.\" SectDesc: セキュリティ・ツール
.\" Software: JDK 8
.\" Arch: 汎用
.\" Part Number: E58103-01
.\" Doc ID: JSSON
.\"
.if n .pl 99999
.TH "policytool" "1" "2015年3月3日" "JDK 8" "セキュリティ・ツール"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.\" http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/groff/2009-02/msg00013.html
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "名前"
policytool \- ユーティリティGUI経由で取得したユーザー入力に基づいて、プレーン・テキストのポリシー・ファイルを読み書きします。
.SH "概要"
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
\fBpolicytool\fR [ \fB\-file\fR ] [ \fIfilename\fR ] 
.fi
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.PP
\-file
.RS 4
ポリシー・ファイルを読み込むように\fBpolicytool\fRに指示します。
.RE
.PP
\fIfilename\fR
.RS 4
ロードするファイルの名前。
.RE
.PP
\fB例\fR:
.PP
ポリシー・ツール管理ユーティリティを実行します:
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
\fBpolicytool\fR
 
.fi
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.PP
\fBpolicytool\fRコマンドを実行し、指定されたファイルをロードします:
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
\fBpolicytool \-file \fR\fB\fImypolicyfile\fR\fR
 
.fi
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.SH "説明"
.PP
\fBpolicytool\fRコマンドは、管理者のGUIを呼び出します。これにより、システム管理者はローカル・ポリシー・ファイルの内容を管理できるようになります。ポリシー・ファイルは\fB\&.policy\fR拡張子を持つプレーンテキスト・ファイルで、ドメイン別にリモート・リクエスタを権限オブジェクトにマップします。詳細は、http://docs\&.oracle\&.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/PolicyFiles\&.htmlにある
「Default Policy Implementation and Policy File Syntax」を参照してください
.SH "オプション"
.PP
\-file
.RS 4
ポリシー・ファイルを読み込むように\fBpolicytool\fRに指示します。
.RE
.SH "関連項目"
.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
「Default Policy Implementation and Policy File Syntax」
(http://docs\&.oracle\&.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/PolicyFiles\&.html)
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
「Policy File Creation and Management」
(http://docs\&.oracle\&.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/PolicyGuide\&.html)
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
「Permissions in Java SE Development Kit (JDK)」
(http://docs\&.oracle\&.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/permissions\&.html)
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
「Java Security Overview」
(http://docs\&.oracle\&.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/overview/jsoverview\&.html)
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
「Java Cryptography Architecture (JCA) Reference Guide」
(http://docs\&.oracle\&.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/crypto/CryptoSpec\&.html)
.RE
.br
'pl 8.5i
'bp
