'\" t
.\"
.\" Copyright 2000-2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
.\"
.\" This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This code is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" version 2 for more details (a copy is included in the LICENSE file that
.\" accompanied this code).
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License version
.\" 2 along with this work; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\"
.\" Please contact Sun Microsystems, Inc., 4150 Network Circle, Santa Clara,
.\" CA 95054 USA or visit www.sun.com if you need additional information or
.\" have any questions.
.\"
.\" 
.TH rmiregistry 1 "2004 年 6 月 22 日"
.SH "名前"
rmiregistry \- Java リモートオブジェクトレジストリ
.\" 
.\"  This document was created by saving an HTML file as text
.\"  from the JavaSoft web site:
.\" 
.\" http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5/docs/tooldocs/tools.html
.\" 
.\"  and adding appropriate troff macros.  Because the JavaSoft web site 
.\"  man pages can change without notice, it may be helpful to diff
.\"  files to identify changes other than new functionality. 
.\" 
.SH "形式"
.B rmiregistry 
[
.I port
]
.SH "機能説明"
.IX "Java remote object registry" "" "Java remote object registry \(em \fLrmiregistry\fP"
.IX "rmiregistry" "" "\fLrmiregistry\fP \(em Java remote object registry"
.B rmiregistry
コマンドは、現在のホスト上の指定されたポートに、リモートオブジェクト
レジストリを作成し起動します。
ポート番号が省略された場合には、ポート
1099
が使用されます。
.B rmiregistry
はバックグラウンドで実行され、何も出力しません。
以下に指定例を示します。
.LP
.RS
.B example% rmiregistry &
.RE
.LP
リモートオブジェクトレジストリはブートストラップネームサービスで、
ホスト上の
RMI
サーバがリモートオブジェクトに名前をバインドするために使用します。
名前がついたあとは、クライアント側でリモートオブジェクトを探して
リモートメソッドを呼び出すことができます。
.LP
レジストリは通常、アプリケーションがメソッドを呼び出す必要がある
最初のリモートオブジェクトを指定するために使用されます。
そのあと、そのオブジェクトを使って、アプリケーション固有の
方法で他のオブジェクトを探すことが可能になります。
.LP
.B java.rmi.registry.LocateRegistry
クラスのメソッドは、特定のホストまたは特定のホストとポート上で
動作しているレジストリを得るために用いられます。
.LP
.B java.rmi.Naming
クラスの
URL
用のメソッドはレジストリを操作するもので、
リモートオブジェクトの探索、リモートオブジェクトへの
名前
(文字列)
のバインド、新たな名前のバインド
(以前のバインドを上書き)、
バインドの取り消し、およびレジストリ中でバインドされている
URL
の一覧表示が可能です。
.SH "オプション"
以下のオプションが使用できます。
.TP 15
.BI \-J option
java オプションと組み合わせて使います
(
.B \-J
と java オプションの間にスペースは必要ありません)。 
.B \-J
の後ろに続くオプションを java インタプリタに渡します。
.SH "関連項目"
次については、
.BR java.sun.com 
を参照または検索してください。
.TP 5
.B java.rmi.Naming @
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5/docs/api/java/rmi/Naming.html
.TP 5
.B java.rmi.registry.LocateRegistry @
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5/docs/api/java/rmi/registry/LocateRegistry.html

