src/jdk.jartool/share/man/jar.md, before:

---
# Copyright (c) 1997, 2024, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
# DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
#
# This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
# published by the Free Software Foundation.
#
# This code is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
# ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
# FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
# version 2 for more details (a copy is included in the LICENSE file that
# accompanied this code).
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License version
# 2 along with this work; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
# Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
#
# Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
# or visit www.oracle.com if you need additional information or have any
# questions.
#

title: 'JAR(1) JDK @@VERSION_SHORT@@ | JDK Commands'
date: @@COPYRIGHT_YEAR@@
lang: en
---

## Name

jar - create an archive for classes and resources, and manipulate or restore
individual classes or resources from an archive

## Synopsis

`jar` \[*OPTION* ...\] \[ \[`--release` *VERSION*\] \[`-C` *dir*\] *files*\]
...

## Description

The `jar` command is a general-purpose archiving and compression tool, based on
the ZIP and ZLIB compression formats. Initially, the `jar` command was designed
to package Java applets (not supported since JDK 11) or applications; however,
beginning with JDK 9, users can use the `jar` command to create modular JARs.
For transportation and deployment, it's usually more convenient to package
modules as modular JARs.

The syntax for the `jar` command resembles the syntax for the `tar` command. It
has several main operation modes, defined by one of the mandatory operation
arguments. Other arguments are either options that modify the behavior of the
operation or are required to perform the operation.

When modules or the components of an application (files, images and sounds) are
combined into a single archive, they can be downloaded by a Java agent (such as
a browser) in a single HTTP transaction, rather than requiring a new connection
for each piece. This dramatically improves download times. The `jar` command
also compresses files, which further improves download time. The `jar` command
also enables individual entries in a file to be signed so that their origin can
be authenticated. A JAR file can be used as a class path entry, whether or not
it's compressed.

An archive becomes a modular JAR when you include a module descriptor,
`module-info.class`, in the root of the given directories or in the root of
the `.jar` archive. The following operations described in [Operation Modifiers
Valid Only in Create and Update Modes] are valid only when creating or
updating a modular jar or updating an existing non-modular jar:

-   `--module-version`

-   `--hash-modules`

-   `--module-path`

**Note:**

All mandatory or optional arguments for long options are also mandatory or
optional for any corresponding short options.

## Main Operation Modes

When using the `jar` command, you must specify the operation for it to perform.
You specify the operation mode for the `jar` command by including the
appropriate operation arguments described in this section. You can mix an
operation argument with other one-letter options. Generally the operation
argument is the first argument specified on the command line.

`-c` or `--create`
:   Creates the archive.

`-i` *FILE* or `--generate-index=`*FILE*
:   Generates index information for the specified JAR file.  This option is deprecated
    and may be removed in a future release.

`-t` or `--list`
:   Lists the table of contents for the archive.

`-u` or `--update`
:   Updates an existing JAR file.

`-x` or `--extract`
:   Extracts the named (or all) files from the archive.
    If a file with the same name appears more than once in
    the archive, each copy will be extracted, with later copies
    overwriting (replacing) earlier copies unless -k is specified.

`-d` or `--describe-module`
:   Prints the module descriptor or automatic module name.

## Operation Modifiers Valid in Any Mode

You can use the following options to customize the actions of any operation
mode included in the `jar` command.

`-C` *DIR*
:   When used with the create operation mode, changes the specified directory
    and includes the *files* specified at the end of the command line.

    `jar` \[*OPTION* ...\] \[ \[`--release` *VERSION*\] \[`-C` *dir*\]
    *files*\]

    When used with the extract operation mode, specifies the destination directory
    where the JAR file will be extracted. Unlike with the create operation mode,
    this option can be specified only once with the extract operation mode.

`-f` *FILE* or `--file=`*FILE*
:   Specifies the archive file name.

`--release` *VERSION*
:   Creates a multirelease JAR file. Places all files specified after the
    option into a versioned directory of the JAR file named
    `META-INF/versions/`*VERSION*`/`, where *VERSION* must be must be a
    positive integer whose value is 9 or greater.

    At run time, where more than one version of a class exists in the JAR, the
    JDK will use the first one it finds, searching initially in the directory
    tree whose *VERSION* number matches the JDK's major version number. It will
    then look in directories with successively lower *VERSION* numbers, and
    finally look in the root of the JAR.

`-v` or `--verbose`
:   Sends or prints verbose output to standard output.

## Operation Modifiers Valid Only in Create and Update Modes

You can use the following options to customize the actions of the create and
the update main operation modes:

`-e` *CLASSNAME* or `--main-class=`*CLASSNAME*
:   Specifies the application entry point for standalone applications bundled
    into a modular or executable modular JAR file.

`-m` *FILE* or `--manifest=`*FILE*
:   Includes the manifest information from the given manifest file.

`-M` or `--no-manifest`
:   Doesn't create a manifest file for the entries.

`--module-version=`*VERSION*
:   Specifies the module version, when creating or updating a modular JAR file,
    or updating a non-modular JAR file.

`--hash-modules=`*PATTERN*
:   Computes and records the hashes of modules matched by the given pattern and
    that depend upon directly or indirectly on a modular JAR file being created
    or a non-modular JAR file being updated.

`-p` or `--module-path`
:   Specifies the location of module dependence for generating the hash.

`@`*file*
:   Reads `jar` options and file names from a text file as if they were supplied
on the command line

## Operation Modifiers Valid Only in Create, Update, and Generate-index Modes

You can use the following options to customize the actions of the create (`-c`
or `--create`) the update (`-u` or `--update` ) and the generate-index (`-i` or
`--generate-index=`*FILE*) main operation modes:

`-0` or `--no-compress`
:   Stores without using ZIP compression.

`--date=`*TIMESTAMP*
:   The timestamp in ISO-8601 extended offset date-time with optional time-zone
    format, to use for the timestamp of the entries,
    e.g. "2022-02-12T12:30:00-05:00".

## Operation Modifiers Valid Only in Extract Mode

`--dir` *DIR*
:   Directory into which the JAR file will be extracted.

`-k` or `--keep-old-files`
:   Do not overwrite existing files.
    If a Jar file entry with the same name exists in the target directory, the
    existing file will not be overwritten.
    As a result, if a file appears more than once in an archive, later copies will not overwrite
    earlier copies.
    Also note that some file system can be case insensitive.

## Other Options

The following options are recognized by the `jar` command and not used with
operation modes:

`-h` or `--help`\[`:compat`\]
:   Displays the command-line help for the `jar` command or optionally the
    compatibility help.

`--help-extra`
:   Displays help on extra options.

`--version`
:   Prints the program version.

## Examples of jar Command Syntax

-   Create an archive, `classes.jar`, that contains two class files,
    `Foo.class` and `Bar.class`.

    >   `jar --create --file classes.jar Foo.class Bar.class`

-   Create an archive, `classes.jar`, that contains two class files,
    `Foo.class` and `Bar.class` setting the last modified date and time to `2021 Jan 6 12:36:00`.

    >   `jar --create --date="2021-01-06T14:36:00+02:00" --file=classes.jar Foo.class Bar.class`

-   Create an archive, `classes.jar`, by using an existing manifest,
    `mymanifest`, that contains all of the files in the directory `foo/`.

    >   `jar --create --file classes.jar --manifest mymanifest -C foo/`

-   Create a modular JAR archive,`foo.jar`, where the module descriptor is
    located in `classes/module-info.class`.

    >   `jar --create --file foo.jar --main-class com.foo.Main
        --module-version 1.0 -C foo/classes resources`

-   Update an existing non-modular JAR, `foo.jar`, to a modular JAR file.

    >   `jar --update --file foo.jar --main-class com.foo.Main
        --module-version 1.0 -C foo/module-info.class`

-   Create a versioned or multi-release JAR, `foo.jar`, that places the files
    in the `classes` directory at the root of the JAR, and the files in the
    `classes-10` directory in the `META-INF/versions/10` directory of the JAR.

    In this example, the `classes/com/foo` directory contains two classes,
    `com.foo.Hello` (the entry point class) and `com.foo.NameProvider`, both
    compiled for JDK 8. The `classes-10/com/foo` directory contains a different
    version of the `com.foo.NameProvider` class, this one containing JDK 10
    specific code and compiled for JDK 10.

    Given this setup, create a multirelease JAR file `foo.jar` by running the
    following command from the directory containing the directories `classes`
    and `classes-10` .

    >   `jar --create --file foo.jar --main-class com.foo.Hello -C classes .
        --release 10 -C classes-10 .`

    The JAR file `foo.jar` now contains:

    ```
    % jar -tf foo.jar

    META-INF/
    META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
    com/
    com/foo/
    com/foo/Hello.class
    com/foo/NameProvider.class
    META-INF/versions/10/com/
    META-INF/versions/10/com/foo/
    META-INF/versions/10/com/foo/NameProvider.class
    ```

    As well as other information, the file `META-INF/MANIFEST.MF`, will contain
    the following lines to indicate that this is a multirelease JAR file with
    an entry point of `com.foo.Hello`.

    ```
    ...
    Main-Class: com.foo.Hello
    Multi-Release: true
    ```

    Assuming that the `com.foo.Hello` class calls a method on the
    `com.foo.NameProvider` class, running the program using JDK 10 will ensure
    that the `com.foo.NameProvider` class is the one in
    `META-INF/versions/10/com/foo/`. Running the program using JDK 8 will
    ensure that the `com.foo.NameProvider` class is the one at the root of the
    JAR, in `com/foo`.

-   Create an archive, `my.jar`, by reading options and lists of class files
    from the file `classes.list`.

    **Note:**

    To shorten or simplify the `jar` command, you can provide an arg file that lists
    the files to include in the JAR file and pass it to the `jar` command with the at sign (`@`)
    as a prefix.

    >   `jar --create --file my.jar @classes.list`

    If one or more entries in the arg file cannot be found then the jar command fails without creating the JAR file.

-   Extract the JAR file `foo.jar` to `/tmp/bar/` directory:

    >   `jar -xf foo.jar -C /tmp/bar/`

    Alternatively, you can also do:

    >   `jar --extract --file foo.jar --dir /tmp/bar/`

Commit message:

8345431: Improve jar --validate to detect duplicate or invalid entries
Reviewed-by: lancea, jpai

src/jdk.jartool/share/man/jar.md, after:

---
# Copyright (c) 1997, 2025, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
# DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
#
# This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
# published by the Free Software Foundation.
#
# This code is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
# ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
# FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
# version 2 for more details (a copy is included in the LICENSE file that
# accompanied this code).
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License version
# 2 along with this work; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
# Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
#
# Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
# or visit www.oracle.com if you need additional information or have any
# questions.
#

title: 'JAR(1) JDK @@VERSION_SHORT@@ | JDK Commands'
date: @@COPYRIGHT_YEAR@@
lang: en
---

## Name

jar - create an archive for classes and resources, and manipulate or restore
individual classes or resources from an archive

## Synopsis

`jar` \[*OPTION* ...\] \[ \[`--release` *VERSION*\] \[`-C` *dir*\] *files*\]
...

## Description

The `jar` command is a general-purpose archiving and compression tool, based on
the ZIP and ZLIB compression formats. Initially, the `jar` command was designed
to package Java applets (not supported since JDK 11) or applications; however,
beginning with JDK 9, users can use the `jar` command to create modular JARs.
For transportation and deployment, it's usually more convenient to package
modules as modular JARs.

The syntax for the `jar` command resembles the syntax for the `tar` command. It
has several main operation modes, defined by one of the mandatory operation
arguments. Other arguments are either options that modify the behavior of the
operation or are required to perform the operation.

When modules or the components of an application (files, images and sounds) are
combined into a single archive, they can be downloaded by a Java agent (such as
a browser) in a single HTTP transaction, rather than requiring a new connection
for each piece. This dramatically improves download times. The `jar` command
also compresses files, which further improves download time. The `jar` command
also enables individual entries in a file to be signed so that their origin can
be authenticated. A JAR file can be used as a class path entry, whether or not
it's compressed.

An archive becomes a modular JAR when you include a module descriptor,
`module-info.class`, in the root of the given directories or in the root of
the `.jar` archive. The following operations described in [Operation Modifiers
Valid Only in Create and Update Modes] are valid only when creating or
updating a modular jar or updating an existing non-modular jar:

-   `--module-version`

-   `--hash-modules`

-   `--module-path`

**Note:**

All mandatory or optional arguments for long options are also mandatory or
optional for any corresponding short options.

## Main Operation Modes

When using the `jar` command, you must specify the operation for it to perform.
You specify the operation mode for the `jar` command by including the
appropriate operation arguments described in this section. You can mix an
operation argument with other one-letter options. Generally the operation
argument is the first argument specified on the command line.

`-c` or `--create`
:   Creates the archive.

`-i` *FILE* or `--generate-index=`*FILE*
:   Generates index information for the specified JAR file.  This option is deprecated
    and may be removed in a future release.

`-t` or `--list`
:   Lists the table of contents for the archive.

`-u` or `--update`
:   Updates an existing JAR file.

`-x` or `--extract`
:   Extracts the named (or all) files from the archive.
    If a file with the same name appears more than once in
    the archive, each copy will be extracted, with later copies
    overwriting (replacing) earlier copies unless -k is specified.

`-d` or `--describe-module`
:   Prints the module descriptor or automatic module name.

`--validate`
:   Validate the contents of the JAR file.
    See `Integrity of a JAR File` section below for more details.

## Operation Modifiers Valid in Any Mode

You can use the following options to customize the actions of any operation
mode included in the `jar` command.

`-C` *DIR*
:   When used with the create operation mode, changes the specified directory
    and includes the *files* specified at the end of the command line.

    `jar` \[*OPTION* ...\] \[ \[`--release` *VERSION*\] \[`-C` *dir*\]
    *files*\]

    When used with the extract operation mode, specifies the destination directory
    where the JAR file will be extracted. Unlike with the create operation mode,
    this option can be specified only once with the extract operation mode.

`-f` *FILE* or `--file=`*FILE*
:   Specifies the archive file name.

`--release` *VERSION*
:   Creates a multirelease JAR file. Places all files specified after the
    option into a versioned directory of the JAR file named
    `META-INF/versions/`*VERSION*`/`, where *VERSION* must be must be a
    positive integer whose value is 9 or greater.

    At run time, where more than one version of a class exists in the JAR, the
    JDK will use the first one it finds, searching initially in the directory
    tree whose *VERSION* number matches the JDK's major version number. It will
    then look in directories with successively lower *VERSION* numbers, and
    finally look in the root of the JAR.

`-v` or `--verbose`
:   Sends or prints verbose output to standard output.

## Operation Modifiers Valid Only in Create and Update Modes

You can use the following options to customize the actions of the create and
the update main operation modes:

`-e` *CLASSNAME* or `--main-class=`*CLASSNAME*
:   Specifies the application entry point for standalone applications bundled
    into a modular or executable modular JAR file.

`-m` *FILE* or `--manifest=`*FILE*
:   Includes the manifest information from the given manifest file.

`-M` or `--no-manifest`
:   Doesn't create a manifest file for the entries.

`--module-version=`*VERSION*
:   Specifies the module version, when creating or updating a modular JAR file,
    or updating a non-modular JAR file.

`--hash-modules=`*PATTERN*
:   Computes and records the hashes of modules matched by the given pattern and
    that depend upon directly or indirectly on a modular JAR file being created
    or a non-modular JAR file being updated.

`-p` or `--module-path`
:   Specifies the location of module dependence for generating the hash.

`@`*file*
:   Reads `jar` options and file names from a text file as if they were supplied
on the command line

## Operation Modifiers Valid Only in Create, Update, and Generate-index Modes

You can use the following options to customize the actions of the create (`-c`
or `--create`) the update (`-u` or `--update` ) and the generate-index (`-i` or
`--generate-index=`*FILE*) main operation modes:

`-0` or `--no-compress`
:   Stores without using ZIP compression.

`--date=`*TIMESTAMP*
:   The timestamp in ISO-8601 extended offset date-time with optional time-zone
    format, to use for the timestamp of the entries,
    e.g. "2022-02-12T12:30:00-05:00".

## Operation Modifiers Valid Only in Extract Mode

`--dir` *DIR*
:   Directory into which the JAR file will be extracted.

`-k` or `--keep-old-files`
:   Do not overwrite existing files.
    If a Jar file entry with the same name exists in the target directory, the
    existing file will not be overwritten.
    As a result, if a file appears more than once in an archive, later copies will not overwrite
    earlier copies.
    Also note that some file system can be case insensitive.

## Other Options

The following options are recognized by the `jar` command and not used with
operation modes:

`-h` or `--help`\[`:compat`\]
:   Displays the command-line help for the `jar` command or optionally the
    compatibility help.

`--help-extra`
:   Displays help on extra options.

`--version`
:   Prints the program version.

## Integrity of a JAR File
As a JAR file is based on ZIP format, it is possible to create a JAR file using tools
other than the `jar` command. The --validate option may be used to perform the following
integrity checks against a JAR file:

- That there are no duplicate Zip entry file names
- Verify that the Zip entry file name:
    - is not an absolute path
    - the file name is not '.' or '..'
    - does not contain a backslash, '\\'
    - does not contain a drive letter
    - path element does not include '.' or '..
- The API exported by a multi-release jar archive is consistent across all different release
  versions.

The jar tool exits with a status of 0 if there were no integrity issues encountered and >0 if an
error/warning occurred.

When an integrity issue is reported, it will often require that the JAR file is re-created by the
original source of the JAR file.

## Examples of jar Command Syntax

-   Create an archive, `classes.jar`, that contains two class files,
    `Foo.class` and `Bar.class`.

    >   `jar --create --file classes.jar Foo.class Bar.class`

-   Create an archive, `classes.jar`, that contains two class files,
    `Foo.class` and `Bar.class` setting the last modified date and time to `2021 Jan 6 12:36:00`.

    >   `jar --create --date="2021-01-06T14:36:00+02:00" --file=classes.jar Foo.class Bar.class`

-   Create an archive, `classes.jar`, by using an existing manifest,
    `mymanifest`, that contains all of the files in the directory `foo/`.

    >   `jar --create --file classes.jar --manifest mymanifest -C foo/`

-   Create a modular JAR archive,`foo.jar`, where the module descriptor is
    located in `classes/module-info.class`.

    >   `jar --create --file foo.jar --main-class com.foo.Main
        --module-version 1.0 -C foo/classes resources`

-   Update an existing non-modular JAR, `foo.jar`, to a modular JAR file.

    >   `jar --update --file foo.jar --main-class com.foo.Main
        --module-version 1.0 -C foo/module-info.class`

-   Create a versioned or multi-release JAR, `foo.jar`, that places the files
    in the `classes` directory at the root of the JAR, and the files in the
    `classes-10` directory in the `META-INF/versions/10` directory of the JAR.

    In this example, the `classes/com/foo` directory contains two classes,
    `com.foo.Hello` (the entry point class) and `com.foo.NameProvider`, both
    compiled for JDK 8. The `classes-10/com/foo` directory contains a different
    version of the `com.foo.NameProvider` class, this one containing JDK 10
    specific code and compiled for JDK 10.

    Given this setup, create a multirelease JAR file `foo.jar` by running the
    following command from the directory containing the directories `classes`
    and `classes-10` .

    >   `jar --create --file foo.jar --main-class com.foo.Hello -C classes .
        --release 10 -C classes-10 .`

    The JAR file `foo.jar` now contains:

    ```
    % jar -tf foo.jar

    META-INF/
    META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
    com/
    com/foo/
    com/foo/Hello.class
    com/foo/NameProvider.class
    META-INF/versions/10/com/
    META-INF/versions/10/com/foo/
    META-INF/versions/10/com/foo/NameProvider.class
    ```

    As well as other information, the file `META-INF/MANIFEST.MF`, will contain
    the following lines to indicate that this is a multirelease JAR file with
    an entry point of `com.foo.Hello`.

    ```
    ...
    Main-Class: com.foo.Hello
    Multi-Release: true
    ```

    Assuming that the `com.foo.Hello` class calls a method on the
    `com.foo.NameProvider` class, running the program using JDK 10 will ensure
    that the `com.foo.NameProvider` class is the one in
    `META-INF/versions/10/com/foo/`. Running the program using JDK 8 will
    ensure that the `com.foo.NameProvider` class is the one at the root of the
    JAR, in `com/foo`.

-   Create an archive, `my.jar`, by reading options and lists of class files
    from the file `classes.list`.

    **Note:**

    To shorten or simplify the `jar` command, you can provide an arg file that lists
    the files to include in the JAR file and pass it to the `jar` command with the at sign (`@`)
    as a prefix.

    >   `jar --create --file my.jar @classes.list`

    If one or more entries in the arg file cannot be found then the jar command fails without creating the JAR file.

-   Extract the JAR file `foo.jar` to `/tmp/bar/` directory:

    >   `jar -xf foo.jar -C /tmp/bar/`

    Alternatively, you can also do:

    >   `jar --extract --file foo.jar --dir /tmp/bar/`
