." Copyright (c) 2004, 2012, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by the Free Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
." version 2 for more details (a copy is included in the LICENSE file that
." accompanied this code).
."
." You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License version
." 2 along with this work; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additional information or have any
." questions.
."
.TH apt 1 "10 May 2011"

.LP
.SH "NAME"
.LP
.LP
\f2apt\fP \- annotation processing tool
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.LP
\f2apt [\-classpath \fP\f2classpath\fP] [\-sourcepath \f2sourcepath\fP] [\-d \f2directory\fP] [\-s \f2directory\fP] [\-factorypath \f2path\fP] [\-factory \f2class\fP] [\-print] [\-nocompile] [\-A\f2key\fP[\f2=val\fP] ...] [\f2javac option\fP] sourcefiles [@files]
.LP
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.LP
.LP
Options may be in any order. For a discussion of parameters which apply to a specific option, see OPTIONS below.
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
sourcefiles
Zero or more source files to be processed.
.TP 3
@files
One or more files that list source files or other options
.RE

.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
.LP
\f3Note\fP: The \f2apt\fP tool and its associated API contained in the package \f2com.sun.mirror\fP have been deprecated since JDK 7 and are planned to be removed in the next major JDK release. Use the options available in the \f2javac(1)\fP tool and the APIs contained in the packages \f2javax.annotation.processing\fP and \f2javax.lang.model\fP to process annotations.
.LP
.LP
The tool \f2apt\fP, annotation processing tool, includes reflective APIs and supporting infrastructure to process program annotations. The \f2apt\fP reflective APIs provide a build\-time, source\-based, read\-only view of program structure. These reflective APIs are designed to cleanly model the Java(TM) programming language's type system after the addition of generics. First, \f2apt\fP runs annotation processors that can produce new source code and other files. Next, \f2apt\fP can cause compilation of both original and generated source files, easing development. The reflective APIs and other APIs used to interact with the tool are subpackages of \f2com.sun.mirror\fP.
.LP
.LP
A fuller discussion of how the tool operates as well as instructions for developing with \f2apt\fP are in
.na
\f4Getting Started with \fP\f4apt\fP. @
.fi
http://download.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/apt/GettingStarted.html
.LP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.SS
apt specific options
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-s dir
Specify the directory root under which processor\-generated source files will be placed; files are placed in subdirectories based on package namespace.
.TP 3
\-nocompile
Do not compile source files to class files.
.TP 3
\-print
Print out textual representation of specified types; perform no annotation processing or compilation.
.TP 3
\-A[key[=val]]
Options to pass to annotation processors \-\- these are not interpreted by \f2apt\fP directly, but are made available for use by individual processors
.TP 3
\-factorypath path
Specify where to find annotation processor factories; if this option is used, the classpath is \f2not\fP searched for factories.
.TP 3
\-factory classname
Name of annotation processor factory to use; bypasses default discovery process
.TP 3
\-version
Print version information.
.TP 3
\-X
Display information about non\-standard options.
.RE

.LP
.SS
Options shared with javac
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-d dir
Specify where to place processor and javac generated class files
.TP 3
\-cp path or \-classpath path
Specify where to find user class files and annotation processor factories. If \f2\-factorypath\fP is given, the classpath is not searched for factories.
.RE

.LP
.LP
Consult the javac(1) man page for information on \f2javac\fP options.
.LP
.SS
Non\-Standard Options
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 3
\-XListAnnotationTypes
List found annotation types.
.TP 3
\-XListDeclarations
List specified and included declarations.
.TP 3
\-XPrintAptRounds
Print information about initial and recursive \f2apt\fP rounds.
.TP 3
\-XPrintFactoryInfo
Print information about which annotations a factory is asked to process.
.TP 3
\-XclassesAsDecls
Treat both class and source files as declarations to process.
.RE

.LP
.LP
\f3Note\fP: Because these options are non\-standard, they are subject to change without notice.
.LP
.SH "NOTES"
.LP
.LP
The \f2apt\fP tool and its associated API contained in the package \f2com.sun.mirror\fP have been deprecated since JDK 7 and are planned to be removed in the next major JDK release. Use the options available in the \f2javac(1)\fP tool and the APIs contained in the packages \f2javax.annotation.processing\fP and \f2javax.lang.model\fP to process annotations.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
javac(1), java(1)
.RE

.LP

