." Copyright (c) 2005, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
." DO NOT ALTER OR REMOVE COPYRIGHT NOTICES OR THIS FILE HEADER.
."
." This code is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
." under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 only, as
." published by the Free Software Foundation.
."
." This code is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
." ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
." FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
." version 2 for more details (a copy is included in the LICENSE file that
." accompanied this code).
."
." You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License version
." 2 along with this work; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
." Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
."
." Please contact Oracle, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA
." or visit www.oracle.com if you need additional information or have any
." questions.
."
.TH schemagen 1 "10 May 2011"

.LP
.SH "Name"
schemagen \- Java(TM) Architecture for XML Binding Schema Generator
.LP
.LP
\f3Specification Version:\fP 2.1
.br
\f3Implementation Version:\fP 2.1.3
.LP
.SH "Launching schemagen"
.LP
.LP
The schema generator can be launched using the appropriate \f2schemagen\fP shell script in the \f2bin\fP directory for your platform.
.LP
.LP
The current schema generator can process either Java source files or class files.
.LP
.LP
We also provide an Ant task to run the schema generator \- see the instructions for
.na
\f2using schemagen with Ant\fP @
.fi
https://jaxb.dev.java.net/nonav/2.1.3/docs/schemagenTask.html.
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
% schemagen.sh Foo.java Bar.java ...
.fl
Note: Writing schema1.xsd
.fl
\fP
.fi

.LP
.LP
If your java sources/classes reference other classes, they must be accessable on your system CLASSPATH environment variable, or they need to be given to the tool by using the \f2\-classpath\fP/\f2\-cp\fP options. Otherwise you will see errors when generating your schema.
.LP
.SS
Command Line Options
.LP
.nf
\f3
.fl
Usage: schemagen [\-options ...] <java files>
.fl

.fl
Options:
.fl
    \-d <path>             : specify where to place processor and javac generated class files
.fl
    \-cp <path>            : specify where to find user specified files
.fl
    \-classpath <path>     : specify where to find user specified files
.fl
    \-encoding <encoding>  : specify encoding to be used for apt/javac invocation
.fl

.fl
    \-episode <file>       : generate episode file for separate compilation
.fl
    \-version              : display version information
.fl
    \-help                 : display this usage message
.fl
\fP
.fi

.LP
.SH "Generated Resource Files"
.LP
.LP
The current schema generator simply creates a schema file for each namespace referenced in your Java classes. There is no way to control the name of the generated schema files at this time. For that purpose, use
.na
\f2the schema generator ant task\fP @
.fi
https://jaxb.dev.java.net/nonav/2.1.3/docs/schemagenTask.html.
.LP
.SH "Name"
See Also
.LP
.RS 3
.TP 2
o
Running the schema generator (schemagen): [
.na
\f2command\-line instructions\fP @
.fi
https://jaxb.dev.java.net/nonav/2.1.3/docs/schemagen.html,
.na
\f2using the SchemaGen Ant task\fP @
.fi
https://jaxb.dev.java.net/nonav/2.1.3/docs/schemagenTask.html]
.TP 2
o
.na
\f2Java Architecture for XML Binding (JAXB)\fP @
.fi
http://download.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/xml/jaxb/index.html
.RE

.LP

