## XHTMLâ„¢ 1.0 The Extensible HyperText Markup Language

### W3C Software Notice and License
<pre>
W3C(R) SOFTWARE NOTICE AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 1994-2002 World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Institut National de Recherche en
Informatique et en Automatique, Keio University). All Rights
Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/

This W3C work (including software, documents, or other related items)
is being provided by the copyright holders under the following
license. By obtaining, using and/or copying this work, you (the
licensee) agree that you have read, understood, and will comply with
the following terms and conditions:

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation, with or without modification, for any purpose and
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include
the following on ALL copies of the software and documentation or
portions thereof, including modifications, that you make:

    The full text of this NOTICE in a location viewable to users of
    the redistributed or derivative work.

    Any pre-existing intellectual property disclaimers, notices, or
    terms and conditions. If none exist, a short notice of the following
    form (hypertext is preferred, text is permitted) should be used within
    the body of any redistributed or derivative code: "Copyright (C)
    [$date-of-software] World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts
    Institute of Technology, Institut National de Recherche en
    Informatique et en Automatique, Keio University). All Rights
    Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/"

    Notice of any changes or modifications to the W3C files, including
    the date changes were made. (We recommend you provide URIs to the
    location from which the code is derived.)

THIS SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS
FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR
DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS,
TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.

COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR
DOCUMENTATION.

The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to the software without specific,
written prior permission. Title to copyright in this software and any
associated documentation will at all times remain with copyright
holders.

</pre>
